README.md, before:

<a id="markdown-sdcli---security-development-repository-tools" name="sdcli---security-development-repository-tools"></a>
# SDCLI - Security Development Repository Tools

*Status: Incubation*

<!-- TOC -->

- [SDCLI - Security Development Repository Tools](#sdcli---security-development-repository-tools)
    - [Overview](#overview)
    - [Usage](#usage)
        - [For Shells Other than `bash`](#for-shells-other-than-bash)
    - [Generate A New Project From Templates](#generate-a-new-project-from-templates)
    - [Adding Commands](#adding-commands)

<!-- /TOC -->

<a id="markdown-overview" name="overview"></a>
## Overview

This project is a docker image that we use as a CLI for repository management.
It bundles our tools related to creating a new project, running any tests or
CI automation, and keep our repositories consistent in how they build.

The current feature set is:

```bash
sdcli
  go
      dep # install go project dependencies
      lint # run our standard go linter
      test # run unit tests
      integration # run integration tests
      coverage # generate a coverage report
  repo
      all # generic repo tools
          add-oss # add license and contributing files
          audit-contract # verify the repo implements the contract
      go # go repo tools
          add-docker # add a Dockerfile
          add-layout # render the standard layout
          add-lint # add linter configuration
          add-travis # add a travisci configuraiton
          create # generate a full go project
```

<a id="markdown-usage" name="usage"></a>
## Usage

The project is delivered as a docker image that contains our tooling:

```bash
docker pull asecurityteam/sdcli:v1
```

With the image installed you call it like (omit the first `--mount` if on Mac):

```bash
export cwd=$(pwd)
export project_path=${cwd#"${GOPATH}/src/"}
docker run -ti \
    # If Linux, mount and configure SSH inside the container.
    --mount src="${SSH_AUTH_SOCK}",target="/ssh-agent",type="bind" \
    --env SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/ssh-agent \
    # Mount the current project directory to a patch inside the container.
    --mount src="$(pwd -L)",target="/go/src/${project_path}",type="bind" \
    # Adjust the container workspace to the newly mounted project.
    -w "/go/src/${project_path}" \
    # Run a command.
    asecurityteam/sdcli:v1 go test
```

To make this easier, you can add this function to your .bashrc file (omit the first `--mount` if on Mac):

```bash
sdcli() {
    local cwd
    local gopath
    cwd="$(pwd)"
    gopath="${GOPATH:-~/go}"
    # Remove gopath from the front of the directory path. The resulting
    # path is used to construct a mount point inside the container. For
    # go projects this results in them being placed within the gopath
    # of the container. Other languages, such as Python, will still get
    # placed within the gopath but should be agnostic to this fact since
    # they can be placed anywhere.
    local project_path=${cwd#"${gopath}/src/"}
    docker run -ti --rm \
        --mount src="${SSH_AUTH_SOCK}",target="/ssh-agent",type="bind" \
        --env "SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/ssh-agent" \
        --mount src="$(pwd -L)",target="/go/src/${project_path}",type="bind" \
        -w "/go/src/${project_path}" \
        asecurityteam/sdcli:v1 "$@"
}
```

which will enable you to call the container like:

```bash
sdcli go test
```

<a id="markdown-for-shells-other-than-bash" name="for-shells-other-than-bash"></a>
### For Shells Other than `bash`

In fish shell, you create a `~/.config/fish/functions/sdcli.fish` file with 755
permissions having contents:

```bash
function sdcli
  set cwd (pwd)
  set gopath "$GOPATH"
  if test -z "$gopath"
    set gopath ~/go # default gopath since 1.8
  end
  # Remove gopath from the front of the directory path. The resulting
  # path is used to construct a mount point inside the container. For
  # go projects this results in them being placed within the gopath
  # of the container. Other languages, such as Python, will still get
  # placed within the gopath but should be agnostic to this fact since
  # they can be placed anywhere.
  set project_path (string replace "$gopath/src/" "" $cwd)
  docker run --rm \
    --mount src="$cwd",target="/go/src/$project_path",type="bind" \
    -w "/go/src/$project_path" \
    asecurityteam/sdcli:v1 $argv
end
```

Some commands are interactive, but if you run `fish` or shells other than `bash`, you
might see "no TTY for interactive shell" or seemingly inexplicable "project_name [New
Project]: Aborted!".  No worries!  Just run in non-interactive mode by specifying all
args on the command line, like:

```bash
sdcli repo go create -- project_name="myproject" project_description="description" --no-input
```

Or start the Docker image with `/bin/bash` as the entrypoint and run `/usr/bin/sdcli $args`
from within (be sure to set `$cwd` and `$project_path` first):

```bash
docker run -it \
    --entrypoint "/bin/bash" \
    --mount src="$cwd",target="/go/src/$project_path",type="bind" \
    -w "/go/src/$project_path" \
    asecurityteam/sdcli:v1
```

<a id="markdown-generate-a-new-project-from-templates"
name="generate-a-new-project-from-templates"></a>
## Generate A New Project From Templates

One of the primary use cases for our tool is creating and auditing new project
repositories. All of our templates are written using the
[cookiecutter](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter) tool. We make fairly granular
templates so generating a project means rendering more than one at a time. The
default behavior is to render each of the templates and prompt through the terminal
for input values. However, each template asks for roughly the same input values. To
reduce the tedium, call the template functions like this:

```bash
sdcli repo go create -- \
    project_name="Name Of Project" \
    project_description="Long form description" \
    --no-input
```

This passes along all the values needed for our templates to render and disables the
prompts.

<a id="markdown-adding-commands" name="adding-commands"></a>
## Adding Commands

The top-level `sdcli` script will dispatch commands by accumulating all the
arguments and joining them with an `_` character. For example, `sdcli my feature`
will be converted to `sdcli_my_feature` and executed. To add a new command, drop
an executable file in the `./commands` directory and name it according to how you
want the script to be called.

Commit message:

Added instructions on how to use python tooling to README

README.md, after:

<a id="markdown-sdcli---security-development-repository-tools" name="sdcli---security-development-repository-tools"></a>
# SDCLI - Security Development Repository Tools

*Status: Incubation*

<!-- TOC -->

- [SDCLI - Security Development Repository Tools](#sdcli---security-development-repository-tools)
    - [Overview](#overview)
    - [Usage](#usage)
        - [For Shells Other than `bash`](#for-shells-other-than-bash)
    - [Generate A New Project From Templates](#generate-a-new-project-from-templates)
    - [Adding Commands](#adding-commands)

<!-- /TOC -->

<a id="markdown-overview" name="overview"></a>
## Overview

This project is a docker image that we use as a CLI for repository management.
It bundles our tools related to creating a new project, running any tests or
CI automation, and keep our repositories consistent in how they build.

The current feature set is:

```bash
sdcli
  go
      dep # install go project dependencies
      lint # run our standard go linter
      test # run unit tests
      integration # run integration tests
      coverage # generate a coverage report
  repo
      all # generic repo tools
          add-oss # add license and contributing files
          audit-contract # verify the repo implements the contract
      go # go repo tools
          add-docker # add a Dockerfile
          add-layout # render the standard layout
          add-lint # add linter configuration
          add-travis # add a travisci configuraiton
          create # generate a full go project
```

<a id="markdown-usage" name="usage"></a>
## Usage

The project is delivered as a docker image that contains our tooling:

```bash
docker pull asecurityteam/sdcli:v1
```

With the image installed you call it like (omit the first `--mount` if on Mac):

```bash
export cwd=$(pwd)
export project_path=${cwd#"${GOPATH}/src/"}
docker run -ti \
    # If Linux, mount and configure SSH inside the container.
    --mount src="${SSH_AUTH_SOCK}",target="/ssh-agent",type="bind" \
    --env SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/ssh-agent \
    # Mount the current project directory to a patch inside the container.
    --mount src="$(pwd -L)",target="/go/src/${project_path}",type="bind" \
    # Adjust the container workspace to the newly mounted project.
    -w "/go/src/${project_path}" \
    # Run a command.
    asecurityteam/sdcli:v1 go test
```

To make this easier, you can add this function to your .bashrc file (omit the first `--mount` if on Mac):

```bash
sdcli() {
    local cwd
    local gopath
    cwd="$(pwd)"
    gopath="${GOPATH:-~/go}"
    # Remove gopath from the front of the directory path. The resulting
    # path is used to construct a mount point inside the container. For
    # go projects this results in them being placed within the gopath
    # of the container. Other languages, such as Python, will still get
    # placed within the gopath but should be agnostic to this fact since
    # they can be placed anywhere.
    local project_path=${cwd#"${gopath}/src/"}
    docker run -ti --rm \
        --mount src="${SSH_AUTH_SOCK}",target="/ssh-agent",type="bind" \
        --env "SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/ssh-agent" \
        --mount src="$(pwd -L)",target="/go/src/${project_path}",type="bind" \
        -w "/go/src/${project_path}" \
        asecurityteam/sdcli:v1 "$@"
}
```

which will enable you to call the container like:

```bash
sdcli go test
```
For python tooling, you can call the container with:

```bash
export cwd=$(pwd)
export project_path=${cwd#"${GOPATH}/src/"}
docker run -ti \
    # If Linux, mount and configure SSH inside the container.
    --mount src="${SSH_AUTH_SOCK}",target="/ssh-agent",type="bind" \
    --env SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/ssh-agent \
    # Mount the current project directory to a patch inside the container.
    --mount src="$(pwd -L)",target="/go/src/${project_path}",type="bind" \
    # Adjust the container workspace to the newly mounted project.
    -w "/go/src/${project_path}" \
    # Run a command.
    asecurityteam/sdcli:v1 python lint
```

Or, if you've already added the sdcli bash function to your .bashrc file, you can simply type:

```bash
sdcli python lint
```

<a id="markdown-for-shells-other-than-bash" name="for-shells-other-than-bash"></a>
### For Shells Other than `bash`

In fish shell, you create a `~/.config/fish/functions/sdcli.fish` file with 755
permissions having contents:

```bash
function sdcli
  set cwd (pwd)
  set gopath "$GOPATH"
  if test -z "$gopath"
    set gopath ~/go # default gopath since 1.8
  end
  # Remove gopath from the front of the directory path. The resulting
  # path is used to construct a mount point inside the container. For
  # go projects this results in them being placed within the gopath
  # of the container. Other languages, such as Python, will still get
  # placed within the gopath but should be agnostic to this fact since
  # they can be placed anywhere.
  set project_path (string replace "$gopath/src/" "" $cwd)
  docker run --rm \
    --mount src="$cwd",target="/go/src/$project_path",type="bind" \
    -w "/go/src/$project_path" \
    asecurityteam/sdcli:v1 $argv
end
```

Some commands are interactive, but if you run `fish` or shells other than `bash`, you
might see "no TTY for interactive shell" or seemingly inexplicable "project_name [New
Project]: Aborted!".  No worries!  Just run in non-interactive mode by specifying all
args on the command line, like:

```bash
sdcli repo go create -- project_name="myproject" project_description="description" --no-input
```

Or start the Docker image with `/bin/bash` as the entrypoint and run `/usr/bin/sdcli $args`
from within (be sure to set `$cwd` and `$project_path` first):

```bash
docker run -it \
    --entrypoint "/bin/bash" \
    --mount src="$cwd",target="/go/src/$project_path",type="bind" \
    -w "/go/src/$project_path" \
    asecurityteam/sdcli:v1
```

<a id="markdown-generate-a-new-project-from-templates"
name="generate-a-new-project-from-templates"></a>
## Generate A New Project From Templates

One of the primary use cases for our tool is creating and auditing new project
repositories. All of our templates are written using the
[cookiecutter](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter) tool. We make fairly granular
templates so generating a project means rendering more than one at a time. The
default behavior is to render each of the templates and prompt through the terminal
for input values. However, each template asks for roughly the same input values. To
reduce the tedium, call the template functions like this:

```bash
sdcli repo go create -- \
    project_name="Name Of Project" \
    project_description="Long form description" \
    --no-input
```

This passes along all the values needed for our templates to render and disables the
prompts.

<a id="markdown-adding-commands" name="adding-commands"></a>
## Adding Commands

The top-level `sdcli` script will dispatch commands by accumulating all the
arguments and joining them with an `_` character. For example, `sdcli my feature`
will be converted to `sdcli_my_feature` and executed. To add a new command, drop
an executable file in the `./commands` directory and name it according to how you
want the script to be called.
